Hi, everybody.
Let me share my screen with you real quickly.
There we go.
Well, hi everybody.
I'm Rachael Dempsey
and I lead customer marketing at Posit.
We build enterprise and open source tools
for people who do data science with R and Python.
We're also the company formerly called RStudio.
I like to add that in there sometimes.
But thank you to the R and Pharma team
for reaching out to me
to open up the third day of the conference
and talk a bit about one of my favorite things, community.
So as I'm sure you've seen here this week,
communities are an amazing way to learn,
collaborate and make work a bit more fun.
So with all the great connections this week,
we wanna keep that going.
And I know the Pharma group is great at that.
And I get to spend a lot of time with people
from the Pharma community in our weekly data science hangout
that I wanted to share with you.
And so this is our gathering place
for the community held every Thursday at 12 Eastern time.
And we chat about data science leadership,
career lessons, workflows and much more.
So I'd love to have you join us at that
if you're not already.
You're always welcome to listen in if you want.
You can join in the conversation in the chat or live
or ask questions anonymously too.
So when I say I get to spend a lot of time
with people in Pharma at the hangout,
I wanted to say a huge thank you to so many of you
from the community here who have joined
as featured leaders over the years.
And I wanted to share this with you here too
to encourage you to check out some of their recordings
as well, because there's a lot to learn from this crew here.
I'm gonna leave this slide for one more second.
Well, I did say we have the hangout every single Thursday.
Next Thursday is a bit different
because we have a webinar on GSK's Our Journey
from Pilot Projects to Enterprise Adoption.
So I'm really excited to hear from Andy, Ben and Becca.
And you can add this specific event to your calendar
with the short link here on the screen.
So while I'm here and I love getting to talk about events
where we're all joining together,
I wanted to spend a few minutes this morning
or afternoon, evening, wherever you are
talking about building your own communities.
And I've spoken to a lot of people
who want to start something within their own organizations
and just aren't really sure how to get started.
So I have some resources here to share with you.
I had made a Accordo site a bit back
with lessons learned from teams like Pfizer
who have their own internal data science hangout,
Regeneron, AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly and many more.
This Accordo site has tips, examples for events
and we'll also let you know how to join
our Community Builder Coffee Hour
where we get together once a month as organizers
to share tips and help each other in challenges.
Eight minutes is not much time to dive into this
but if you're thinking about starting your own community,
I wanted to leave you with a few tips here.
So first, start small.
I think you can have a tendency to think
that a larger audience means a better event.
And I don't think that's true.
Starting small is really important
for building the culture that you want for your group.
It helps you in getting people to know each other
but also that core group of people
will help you maintain the culture as your event grows
or as your community grows.
I think with the hangouts,
we started with 20 people in the beginning
and this is also really important for being intentional
about growing a diverse group from the beginning
and allows you to adapt based on feedback you receive.
So one, starting small is good.
Two, consistency is crucial
for building relationships with your group.
So I recommend whatever you're planning,
keep regular consistency,
which allows members to jump on
when it fits into their schedule.
That doesn't have to be every single week
like the science hangouts, but maybe it's one month.
People then know what to expect.
So I gave a talk on what I learned about community building
from growing up in a bar at Posit Conf a few years ago.
And I call this consistency piece,
finding your taco Tuesday.
So that doesn't mean people will come to every single event
but when they're free, they know exactly where they can go.
It's important to point out here
that just because you hold events consistently
does not mean that everybody's
just gonna show up right away.
It takes time for things to catch on.
So I think with the hangout,
it took about five weeks for a core group
of repeat attendees to emerge.
Third, standardize where you can.
Find the areas where you can spend less mental energy
on the planning by setting things up for yourself
ahead of time and setting a process
for anything that you have to do ahead of time.
And this took me a little bit to learn,
but first with consistency,
when you have the same day and time,
it becomes easier to schedule speaker
because you can just give them a few options
and you having to go back and forth with people.
One that really helped me on the standardizing piece
is creating a Google form to collect speakers information.
So like their title, bio, picture, recording approval.
So you have it all in one spot.
I was actually just like emailing people back and forth
to start and this made a huge difference.
Little things like creating a template email invite
as a placeholder when someone says yes,
they're ready to be a featured speaker
because you can put all the details
and everything in that invite
and you never have to think about it
again for each person.
Other things like writing out your intros,
you're making sure you're welcoming people
and a point of welcoming people.
Number four is always welcome people
and get clear how they can interact.
I've learned it's important to really tell people
this is what this event is.
This is what to expect.
This is who the events are for.
So if you're hoping beginner will join,
let them know that.
A welcoming environment may look a lot different to you
as an organizer than it does to a new attendee.
So it can be helpful to reach out to a few people
that have joined your events and ask
if they may be open to giving feedback.
One way to do that is I just send a quick note
to a few people every week to say thank you for joining
and just open the door to a conversation.
Good best practice here for making sure
your event is welcoming is just take a second
to remind yourself at the beginning
that this might be somebody's first time here
and if it is, what should they know?
Okay, last one here, plan ahead.
I know this is something that gets easier as time goes,
but I highly recommend trying to set out a schedule
for like four weeks to two months out
to give yourself some leeway in planning
and take off the pressure of every single week,
having to make sure you're locking something down.
And it's always easier to find someone
who can agree to an event over a month away.
So when you connect with people through your community group
and you ask them, hey, would you be interested
in being a featured leader or a speaker
at some point in the future?
You can give them options like two months out
and people are much more likely to say yes
if you gave them something two months out
and then just keep that spreadsheet of people lined up
and if they have to switch, that's okay.
So those are my five tips for you this morning.
I love getting to talk about community building
with you all.
So if you'd like to continue the conversation,
please don't hesitate to connect with me on LinkedIn.
I'd love to chat with you
or see you at a data science hangout too.
There's a great keynote talk coming now
by Christina Elmore at GSK.
So you'll have to leave this room,
go jump into that other room there,
but have a great rest of your day everybody.